docs/manual/docs/administrator-guide/managing-classification-systems/managing-categories.md, before:

# Managing categories

GeoNetwork has a concept of categories that can be assigned to metadata documents, but these are not represented in the metadata. So when the metadata is exported, the category will be lost. You can use these categories to separate documents into groups, without changing the actual content of the metadata. Categories can be used to filter a search result, or limit the output of a custom csw endpoint.

To assign a category to a metadata document. Go to the metadata modification form and select the requested category from the pull down in the menu. Then save your metadata.

To modify the available categories in the catalog, from the admin page, open the "classification systems" and then the "category" tab.

Note: If you add or modify categories, they may not obtain an appropriate icon. These icon are managed in `/catalog/style/gn_icons.less`. In this file category-classes are mapped to font-awesome variables that map to a certain [font-awesome icon](https://fontawesome.io).

Commit message:

Database / Default content / Remove categories.
The default categories provided in GeoNetwork since the early beginning are quite overlapping hierarchy level in ISO (eg. dataset, application, map) and in practice they are never used with the default values. It was making sense at the start to have a common grouping systems for the initial standards available in GeoNetwork like dublin core, FGDC, iso19115. Nowadays it is not recommended to use this default category list.

Here we propose to not populate the default database with any category (and we do not alter databases which may be using them).
This will also keep the UI simple. eg. If there is no category, no menu available in the editor (so users are not tempted to use the non recommended default values provided).

We should highlight that the main (only) benefit of using category mechanism is to group records without adding the information in the metadata document.

docs/manual/docs/administrator-guide/managing-classification-systems/managing-categories.md, after:

# Managing categories

The catalog has a concept of categories that can be assigned to metadata documents, but these are not represented in the metadata (not encoded in the XML document). So when the metadata is exported or harvested, the category is not available. You can use these categories to separate documents into groups, without changing the actual content of the metadata.

Categories can be used to filter a search result, or limit the output of a custom portal.

To assign a category to a metadata document. Go to the metadata modification form and select the requested category from the pull down in the menu. Then save your metadata.

To modify the available categories in the catalog, from the admin page, open the "classification systems" and then the "category" tab.

Note: If you add or modify categories, they may not obtain an appropriate icon. These icon are managed in `/catalog/style/gn_icons.less`. In this file category-classes are mapped to font-awesome variables that map to a certain [font-awesome icon](https://fontawesome.io).

Usually, it is recommended to use keywords with a thesaurus instead of categories. The main benefit of categories is that it is not encoded in the metadata.
