docs/manual/docs/user-guide/associating-resources/doi.md, before:

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI) {#doi}

## Configuration

The catalogue support DOI creation using:

-   [DataCite API](https://support.datacite.org/docs/mds-api-guide).
-   EU publication office API <https://ra.publications.europa.eu/servlet/ws/doidata?api=medra.org>

Configure the DOI API access point to publish the metadata in the `Admin console --> Settings --> Doi servers`:

![](img/doi-create-server.png)

Providing the following information:

- `Name`: A descriptive name for the server.
- `Description`: (Optional) A verbose description of the server.
- `DataCite API endpoint`: The API url, usually https://mds.datacite.org or https://mds.test.datacite.org for testing.
- `DataCite username` / `DataCite password`: Credentials required to publish the DOI resources.
- `Landing page URL template`: The URL to use to register the DOI. A good default for GeoNetwork is http://localhost:8080/geonetwork/srv/resources/records/{{uuid}}. The landing page URL MUST contains the UUID of the record.
- `Final DOI URL prefix`: (Optional) Keep it empty to use the default https://doi.org prefix. Use https://mds.test.datacite.org/doi when using the test API.
- `DOI pattern`: Default is `{{uuid}}` but the DOI structure can be customized with database id and/or record group eg. `example-{{groupOwner}}-{{id}}`.
- `DataCite prefix`: Usually looks like `10.xxxx`. You will be allowed to register DOI names only under the prefixes that have been assigned to you.
- `Publication groups`: (Optional) Select the groups which metadata should be published to the DOI server. If no groups are selected, the server will be provided to publish the metadata that has no other DOI servers related to the metadata owner group.

A record can be downloaded using the DataCite format from the API using: <http://localhost:8080/geonetwork/srv/api/records/da165110-88fd-11da-a88f-000d939bc5d8/formatters/datacite?output=xml>

## Creating the DOI

Once configured, DOI can be created using the interface. DOI is created on demand. It means that a user must ask for creation of a DOI. It can be created by:

- The user who created the metadata.
- A user with Reviewer profile in the metadata group owner.
- A user with Administrator profile.

When created, the task is notified by email to the reviewer of the group (by default, can be configured for administrator only using the notification level of the task).

![](img/doi-request-menu.png)

The task is assigned to a specific user. An optional due date and comment can be defined:

![](img/doi-request-popup.png)

After submission of the task, the task owner is notified by email (if the mail server is configured, see admin console --> settings). The task can then be resolved in the admin console ---> information --> versioning section.

If the configuration is missing or wrong, the error is reported:

![](img/doi-config-wrong.png)

For DOI creation, the task is a 2 steps actions:

-   First check if all prerequisite are covered (below the record is not valid in DataCite format).

The DataCite format requires some mandatory fields:

-   Identifier (with mandatory type sub-property)
-   Creator (with optional given name, family name, name identifier and affiliation sub-properties)
-   Title (with optional type sub-properties)
-   Publisher
-   PublicationYear
-   ResourceType (with mandatory general type description subproperty)

The mapping with ISO standards is the following:

| Property        | ISO 19139                                                                                                             | ISO 19115-3                                                                                                           |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Identifier      | ``gmd:MD_Metadata/gmd:fileIdentifier/*/text()``                                                            | ``mdb:MD_Metadata/mdb:metadataIdentifier/*/mcc:code/*/text()``                                            |
| Creator         | ``gmd:identificationInfo/*/gmd:pointOfContact`` with role 'pointOfContact' or 'custodian'              | ``mdb:identificationInfo/*/mri:pointOfContact`` with role 'pointOfContact' or 'custodian'              |
| Title           | ``gmd:identificationInfo/*/gmd:citation/*/gmd:title``                                                     | ``mdb:identificationInfo/*/mri:citation/*/cit:title``                                                     |
| Publisher       | ``gmd:distributorContact[1]/*/gmd:organisationName/gco:CharacterString``                                 | ``mrd:distributorContact[1]/*/cit:party/*/cit:organisationName/gco:CharacterString``                    |
| PublicationYear | ``gmd:identificationInfo/*/gmd:citation/*/gmd:date/*[gmd:dateType/*/@codeListValue = 'publication'`` | ``mdb:identificationInfo/*/mri:citation/*/cit:date/*[cit:dateType/*/@codeListValue = 'publication'`` |
| ResourceType    | ``gmd:hierarchyLevel/*/@codeListValue`` `                                                                 | mdb:metadataScope/*/mdb:resourceScope/*/@codeListValue`                                                              |

The mapping can be customized in:

-   ISO19139 `schemas/iso19139/src/main/plugin/iso19139/formatter/datacite/view.xsl`
-   ISO19115-3.2018 `schemas/iso19139/src/main/plugin/iso19139/formatter/datacite/view.xsl`

See <http://schema.datacite.org/meta/kernel-4.1/doc/DataCite-MetadataKernel_v4.1.pdf> for more details on the format.

DataCite API return XSD validation error.

![](img/doi-request-check.png)

The catalogue also allow to apply DataCite validation in the editor:

![](img/doi-validation.png)

A DOI may already be assigned for a record:

![](img/doi-exists.png)

In such case the DOI can be updated. If the DOI is already assigned in a metadata record, editors can also update the DOI from the editor:

![](img/doi-update-in-editor.png)

After validation, create the DOI

![](img/doi-request-check-ok.png)

Once created, a link to the DOI and to the DataCite document is available:

![](img/doi-created.png)

The DOI is then added to the metadata record:

![](img/doi-in-xml.png)

## DOI API

The REST API allows to access the DOI related operations:

![](img/doi-api.png)

The check preconditions API returns exception if one of the pre requisite is not met:

-   DataCite API is not configured
-   Record is not public
-   Record already has a DOI
-   Record is not valid for DataCite (ie. XSD errors returned by DataCite XSD validation)

![](img/doi-api-check.png)

When a DOI is created, the response return the following details:

![](img/doi-api-done.png)

The DOI is added to the metadata record using the following encoding:

![](img/doi-in-xml.png)

## Examples

-   [Comment créer un DOI à partir de l'outil de catalogage Geonetwork, Annick Battais](https://sist19.sciencesconf.org/data/pages/SIST19_A_BATTAIS.pdf)

Commit message:

Admin / DOI server / Clarify labels for record group
Follow up of https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/pull/8098

DOI server are associated with record group (and not publication group).

docs/manual/docs/user-guide/associating-resources/doi.md, after:

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI) {#doi}

## Configuration

The catalogue support DOI creation using:

-   [DataCite API](https://support.datacite.org/docs/mds-api-guide).
-   EU publication office API <https://ra.publications.europa.eu/servlet/ws/doidata?api=medra.org>

Configure the DOI API access point to publish the metadata in the `Admin console --> Settings --> Doi servers`:

![](img/doi-create-server.png)

Providing the following information:

- `Name`: A descriptive name for the server.
- `Description`: (Optional) A verbose description of the server.
- `DataCite API endpoint`: The API url, usually https://mds.datacite.org or https://mds.test.datacite.org for testing.
- `DataCite username` / `DataCite password`: Credentials required to publish the DOI resources.
- `Landing page URL template`: The URL to use to register the DOI. A good default for GeoNetwork is http://localhost:8080/geonetwork/srv/resources/records/{{uuid}}. The landing page URL MUST contains the UUID of the record.
- `Final DOI URL prefix`: (Optional) Keep it empty to use the default https://doi.org prefix. Use https://mds.test.datacite.org/doi when using the test API.
- `DOI pattern`: Default is `{{uuid}}` but the DOI structure can be customized with database id and/or record group eg. `example-{{groupOwner}}-{{id}}`.
- `DataCite prefix`: Usually looks like `10.xxxx`. You will be allowed to register DOI names only under the prefixes that have been assigned to you.
- `Record groups`: (Optional) When creating a DOI, only DOI server(s) associated with the record group are proposed. If record group is not associated with any DOI servers, then DOI servers with no group are proposed.

A record can be downloaded using the DataCite format from the API using: <http://localhost:8080/geonetwork/srv/api/records/da165110-88fd-11da-a88f-000d939bc5d8/formatters/datacite?output=xml>

## Creating the DOI

Once configured, DOI can be created using the interface. DOI is created on demand. It means that a user must ask for creation of a DOI. It can be created by:

- The user who created the metadata.
- A user with Reviewer profile in the metadata group owner.
- A user with Administrator profile.

When created, the task is notified by email to the reviewer of the group (by default, can be configured for administrator only using the notification level of the task).

![](img/doi-request-menu.png)

The task is assigned to a specific user. An optional due date and comment can be defined:

![](img/doi-request-popup.png)

After submission of the task, the task owner is notified by email (if the mail server is configured, see admin console --> settings). The task can then be resolved in the admin console ---> information --> versioning section.

If the configuration is missing or wrong, the error is reported:

![](img/doi-config-wrong.png)

For DOI creation, the task is a 2 steps actions:

-   First check if all prerequisite are covered (below the record is not valid in DataCite format).

The DataCite format requires some mandatory fields:

-   Identifier (with mandatory type sub-property)
-   Creator (with optional given name, family name, name identifier and affiliation sub-properties)
-   Title (with optional type sub-properties)
-   Publisher
-   PublicationYear
-   ResourceType (with mandatory general type description subproperty)

The mapping with ISO standards is the following:

| Property        | ISO 19139                                                                                                             | ISO 19115-3                                                                                                           |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Identifier      | ``gmd:MD_Metadata/gmd:fileIdentifier/*/text()``                                                            | ``mdb:MD_Metadata/mdb:metadataIdentifier/*/mcc:code/*/text()``                                            |
| Creator         | ``gmd:identificationInfo/*/gmd:pointOfContact`` with role 'pointOfContact' or 'custodian'              | ``mdb:identificationInfo/*/mri:pointOfContact`` with role 'pointOfContact' or 'custodian'              |
| Title           | ``gmd:identificationInfo/*/gmd:citation/*/gmd:title``                                                     | ``mdb:identificationInfo/*/mri:citation/*/cit:title``                                                     |
| Publisher       | ``gmd:distributorContact[1]/*/gmd:organisationName/gco:CharacterString``                                 | ``mrd:distributorContact[1]/*/cit:party/*/cit:organisationName/gco:CharacterString``                    |
| PublicationYear | ``gmd:identificationInfo/*/gmd:citation/*/gmd:date/*[gmd:dateType/*/@codeListValue = 'publication'`` | ``mdb:identificationInfo/*/mri:citation/*/cit:date/*[cit:dateType/*/@codeListValue = 'publication'`` |
| ResourceType    | ``gmd:hierarchyLevel/*/@codeListValue`` `                                                                 | mdb:metadataScope/*/mdb:resourceScope/*/@codeListValue`                                                              |

The mapping can be customized in:

-   ISO19139 `schemas/iso19139/src/main/plugin/iso19139/formatter/datacite/view.xsl`
-   ISO19115-3.2018 `schemas/iso19139/src/main/plugin/iso19139/formatter/datacite/view.xsl`

See <http://schema.datacite.org/meta/kernel-4.1/doc/DataCite-MetadataKernel_v4.1.pdf> for more details on the format.

DataCite API return XSD validation error.

![](img/doi-request-check.png)

The catalogue also allow to apply DataCite validation in the editor:

![](img/doi-validation.png)

A DOI may already be assigned for a record:

![](img/doi-exists.png)

In such case the DOI can be updated. If the DOI is already assigned in a metadata record, editors can also update the DOI from the editor:

![](img/doi-update-in-editor.png)

After validation, create the DOI

![](img/doi-request-check-ok.png)

Once created, a link to the DOI and to the DataCite document is available:

![](img/doi-created.png)

The DOI is then added to the metadata record:

![](img/doi-in-xml.png)

## DOI API

The REST API allows to access the DOI related operations:

![](img/doi-api.png)

The check preconditions API returns exception if one of the pre requisite is not met:

-   DataCite API is not configured
-   Record is not public
-   Record already has a DOI
-   Record is not valid for DataCite (ie. XSD errors returned by DataCite XSD validation)

![](img/doi-api-check.png)

When a DOI is created, the response return the following details:

![](img/doi-api-done.png)

The DOI is added to the metadata record using the following encoding:

![](img/doi-in-xml.png)

## Examples

-   [Comment créer un DOI à partir de l'outil de catalogage Geonetwork, Annick Battais](https://sist19.sciencesconf.org/data/pages/SIST19_A_BATTAIS.pdf)
