docs/manual/docs/user-guide/describing-information/creating-metadata.md, before:

# Creating a new record {#creating-metadata}

This topic guides you through the process of adding new metadata records with associated data and/or services into the catalog.

## Before you begin

To add or edit metadata, the user:

-   Must have an `editor` profile or higher.
-   Should be a member of a group you want to add information for.

Contact your administrator if you don't have the correct profile.

1.  From the home page, go to the *contribute* section or directly click on `add new record` menu.

    ![](img/add-new-record.png)

!!! Note

    If only one group is defined in the catalog, and only one template is available, the system settings can be configured to skip the following step and directly open the editor with the selected template and group.

2.  From the metadata template list, select a template (see [Managing templates](managing-templates.md)), choose a group from the group dropdown, configure the creation options in the Create button’s dropdown, and then click Create.

    ![](img/creating-metadata.png)

!!! Note

    If only one group is defined in the catalog, the default group is selected.

Next steps:

-   Complete the fields provided by default in the template and probably
-   Create an image of your data to illustrate it in the search results.

Commit message:

Implement Group Types (#8741)
* Add groupType property to Group

* Prevent importing or creating records on non-workspace groups

* Prevent changing groupType from workspace to non-workspace for groups that own records and prevent changing a non system group to a system group if it already has privileges assigned

* Fix restricted groups can have permissions set in batch privileges ui

* Prevent changing the owner group to a non-workspace group in the editor

* Update TransferApi to prevent transferring ownership to a non-workspace group

* Improve exception messages

* Fix users in group label is always shown

* Prevent setting profiles other than registered user for system groups

* Prevent setting privileges for system groups

* Disable minimumProfileForPrivileges when group type is system

* Add error modals for transfer ownership

* Add SQL statements for new column in groups table

* Update manual

* Update documentation

* Fix minimumProfileForPrivileges is not reset

---------

Co-authored-by: Jody Garnett <jody.garnett@gmail.com>

docs/manual/docs/user-guide/describing-information/creating-metadata.md, after:

# Creating a new record {#creating-metadata}

This topic guides you through the process of adding new metadata records with associated data and/or services into the catalog.

## Before you begin

To add or edit metadata, the user:

-   Must have an `editor` profile or higher.
-   Should be a member of the [Workspace Group](../../administrator-guide/managing-users-and-groups/creating-group.md#1-workspace-group) you want to add information for.

Contact your administrator if you don't have the correct profile.

1.  From the home page, go to the *contribute* section or directly click on `add new record` menu.

    ![](img/add-new-record.png)

!!! Note

    If only one group is defined in the catalog, and only one template is available, the system settings can be configured to skip the following step and directly open the editor with the selected template and group.

2.  From the metadata template list, select a template (see [Managing templates](managing-templates.md)), choose a group from the group dropdown, configure the creation options in the Create button’s dropdown, and then click Create.

    ![](img/creating-metadata.png)

!!! Note

    If only one group is defined in the catalog, the default group is selected. If a group is not a [Workspace Group](../../administrator-guide/managing-users-and-groups/creating-group.md#1-workspace-group) it will not be shown as an option in the list.

Next steps:

-   Complete the fields provided by default in the template and probably
-   Create an image of your data to illustrate it in the search results.
