docs/manual/docs/user-guide/harvesting/harvesting-geoportal.md, before:

# GeoPortal REST Harvesting {#geoportal_rest_harvester}

This harvester will connect to a remote GeoPortal version 9.3.x or 10.x server and retrieve metadata records that match the query parameters specified using the GeoPortal REST API.

## Adding a GeoPortal REST harvester

The figure above shows the options available:

-   **Site** - Options about the remote site.
    -   *Name* - This is a short description of the remote site. It will be shown in the harvesting main page as the name for this instance of the GeoPortal REST harvester.
    -   *Base URL* - The base URL of the GeoPortal server to be harvested. eg. <http://yourhost.com/geoportal>. The harvester will add the additional path required to access the REST services on the GeoPortal server.
    -   *Icon* - An icon to assign to harvested metadata. The icon will be used when showing harvested metadata records in the search results.
-   **Search criteria** - Using the Add button, you can add several search criteria. You can query any field on the GeoPortal server using the Lucene query syntax described at <http://webhelp.esri.com/geoportal_extension/9.3.1/index.htm#srch_lucene.htm>.
-   **Options** - Scheduling options.
-   **Harvested Content** - Options that are applied to harvested content.
    -   *Apply this XSLT to harvested records* - Choose an XSLT here that will convert harvested records to a different format. See notes section below for typical usage.
    -   *Validate* - If checked, the metadata will be validated after retrieval. If the validation does not pass, the metadata will be skipped.
-   **Privileges** - Assign privileges to harvested metadata.
-   **Categories**

!!! Notes

    -   this harvester uses two REST services from the GeoPortal API:
        -   `rest/find/document` with searchText parameter to return an RSS listing of metadata records that meet the search criteria (maximum 100000)
        -   `rest/document` with id parameter from each result returned in the RSS listing
    -   this harvester has been tested with GeoPortal 9.3.x and 10.x. It can be used in preference to the CSW harvester if there are issues with the handling of the OGC standards etc.
    -   typically ISO19115 metadata produced by the Geoportal software will not have a 'gmd' prefix for the namespace `http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmd`. GeoNetwork XSLTs will not have any trouble understanding this metadata but will not be able to map titles and codelists in the viewer/editor. To fix this problem, please select the ``Add-gmd-prefix`` XSLT for the *Apply this XSLT to harvested records* in the **Harvested Content** set of options described earlier

Commit message:

WebDav harvester / Add support for XSLT filter process (#8243)
* WebDav harvester / Add support for XSLT filter process

* Documentation / update documentation for harvesters and add Geonetwork 2.1-3.X harvester page

* WebDav harvester / Use current date for metadata change date if can't be retrieved from the remote metadata

* Documentation / remove Z39.50 harvester documentation.

The harvester is no longer available in GeoNetwork 4.x

* Documentation / Unify harvesters configuration

* Update web-ui/src/main/resources/catalog/templates/admin/harvest/type/webdav.html

Co-authored-by: François Prunayre <fx.prunayre@gmail.com>

* Update harvesters/src/main/java/org/fao/geonet/kernel/harvest/harvester/webdav/Harvester.java

Co-authored-by: François Prunayre <fx.prunayre@gmail.com>

* HarvesterUtil / Use conversions from schema (#106)

Cf https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/pull/6772

---------

Co-authored-by: François Prunayre <fx.prunayre@gmail.com>

docs/manual/docs/user-guide/harvesting/harvesting-geoportal.md, after:

# GeoPortal REST Harvesting {#geoportal_rest_harvester}

This harvester will connect to a remote GeoPortal version 9.3.x or 10.x server and retrieve metadata records that match the query parameters specified using the GeoPortal REST API.

## Adding a GeoPortal REST harvester

To create a GeoPortal REST harvester go to `Admin console` > `Harvesting` and select `Harvest from` > `GeoPortal REST`:

![](img/add-geoportalrest-harvester.png)

Providing the following information:

-   **Identification**
    -   *Node name and logo*: A unique name for the harvester and, optionally, a logo to assign to the harvester.
    -   *Group*: Group which owns the harvested records. Only the catalog administrator or users with the profile `UserAdmin` of this group can manage the harvester.
    -   *User*: User who owns the harvested records.

-   **Schedule**: Scheduling options to execute the harvester. If disabled, the harvester must be run manually from the harvester page. If enabled, a scheduling expression using cron syntax should be configured ([See examples](https://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.1.7/tutorials/crontrigger)).

-   **Configure connection to GeoPortal REST**
    -   *URL*: The base URL of the GeoPortal server to be harvested. eg. <http://yourhost.com/geoportal>. The harvester will add the additional path required to access the REST services on the GeoPortal server.
    -   *Remote authentication*: If checked, should be provided the credentials for basic HTTP authentication on the server.
    -   *Search filter*: (Optional) You can query any field on the GeoPortal server using the Lucene query syntax described at <http://webhelp.esri.com/geoportal_extension/9.3.1/index.htm#srch_lucene.htm>.
  
-   **Configure response processing for geoPREST**
    -   *Validate records before import*: Defines the criteria to reject metadata that is invalid according to XML structure (XSD) and validation rules (schematron).
        -   Accept all metadata without validation.
        -   Accept metadata that are XSD valid.
        -   Accept metadata that are XSD and schematron valid.
    -   *XSL transformation to apply*: (Optional)  The referenced XSL transform will be applied to each metadata record before it is added to GeoNetwork.

-   **Privileges** - Assign privileges to harvested metadata.


!!! Notes

    -   This harvester uses two REST services from the GeoPortal API:
        -   `rest/find/document` with searchText parameter to return an RSS listing of metadata records that meet the search criteria (maximum 100000)
        -   `rest/document` with id parameter from each result returned in the RSS listing
    -   This harvester has been tested with GeoPortal 9.3.x and 10.x. It can be used in preference to the CSW harvester if there are issues with the handling of the OGC standards etc.
    -   Typically ISO19115 metadata produced by the Geoportal software will not have a 'gmd' prefix for the namespace `http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmd`. GeoNetwork XSLTs will not have any trouble understanding this metadata but will not be able to map titles and codelists in the viewer/editor. To fix this problem, please select the ``Add-gmd-prefix`` XSLT for the *Apply this XSLT to harvested records* in the **Harvested Content** set of options described earlier
