docs/manual/docs/user-guide/harvesting/harvesting-filesystem.md, before:

# Local File System Harvesting {#localfilesystem_harvester}

This harvester will harvest metadata as XML files from a filesystem available on the machine running the GeoNetwork server.

## Adding a Local File System harvester

The figure above shows the options available:

-   **Site** - Options about the remote site.
    -   *Name* - This is a short description of the filesystem harvester. It will be shown in the harvesting main page as the name for this instance of the Local Filesystem harvester.
    -   *Directory* - The path name of the directory containing the metadata (as XML files) to be harvested.
    -   *Recurse* - If checked and the *Directory* path contains other directories, then the harvester will traverse the entire file system tree in that directory and add all metadata files found.
    -   *Keep local if deleted at source* - If checked then metadata records that have already been harvested will be kept even if they have been deleted from the *Directory* specified.
    -   *Icon* - An icon to assign to harvested metadata. The icon will be used when showing harvested metadata records in the search results.
-   **Options** - Scheduling options.
-   **Harvested Content** - Options that are applied to harvested content.
    -   *Apply this XSLT to harvested records* - Choose an XSLT here that will convert harvested records to a different format.
    -   *Validate* - If checked, the metadata will be validated after retrieval. If the validation does not pass, the metadata will be skipped.
-   **Privileges** - Assign privileges to harvested metadata.
-   **Categories**

!!! Notes

    -   in order to be successfully harvested, metadata records retrieved from the file system must match a metadata schema in the local GeoNetwork instance

Commit message:

WebDav harvester / Add support for XSLT filter process (#8243)
* WebDav harvester / Add support for XSLT filter process

* Documentation / update documentation for harvesters and add Geonetwork 2.1-3.X harvester page

* WebDav harvester / Use current date for metadata change date if can't be retrieved from the remote metadata

* Documentation / remove Z39.50 harvester documentation.

The harvester is no longer available in GeoNetwork 4.x

* Documentation / Unify harvesters configuration

* Update web-ui/src/main/resources/catalog/templates/admin/harvest/type/webdav.html

Co-authored-by: François Prunayre <fx.prunayre@gmail.com>

* Update harvesters/src/main/java/org/fao/geonet/kernel/harvest/harvester/webdav/Harvester.java

Co-authored-by: François Prunayre <fx.prunayre@gmail.com>

* HarvesterUtil / Use conversions from schema (#106)

Cf https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/pull/6772

---------

Co-authored-by: François Prunayre <fx.prunayre@gmail.com>

docs/manual/docs/user-guide/harvesting/harvesting-filesystem.md, after:

# Local File System Harvesting {#localfilesystem_harvester}

This harvester will harvest metadata as XML files from a filesystem available on the machine running the GeoNetwork server.

## Adding a Local File System harvester

To create a Local File System harvester go to `Admin console` > `Harvesting` and select `Harvest from` > `Directory`:

![](img/add-filesystem-harvester.png)

Providing the following information:

-   **Identification**
    -   *Node name and logo*: A unique name for the harvester and, optionally, a logo to assign to the harvester.
    -   *Group*: Group which owns the harvested records. Only the catalog administrator or users with the profile `UserAdmin` of this group can manage the harvester.
    -   *User*: User who owns the harvested records.

-   **Schedule**: Scheduling options to execute the harvester. If disabled, the harvester must be run manually from the harvester page. If enabled, a scheduling expression using cron syntax should be configured ([See examples](https://www.quartz-scheduler.org/documentation/quartz-2.1.7/tutorials/crontrigger)).

-   **Configure connection to Directory**
    -   *Directory*: The path name of the directory containing the metadata (as XML files) to be harvested. The directory must be accessible by GeoNetwork.
    -   *Also search in subfolders*: If checked and the *Directory* path contains other directories, then the harvester will traverse the entire file system tree in that directory and add all metadata files found.
    -   *Script to run before harvesting*
    -   *Type of record*
    
-   **Configure response processing for filesystem**
    -   *Action on UUID collision*: When a harvester finds the same uuid on a record collected by another method (another harvester, importer, dashboard editor,...), should this record be skipped (default), overriden or generate a new UUID?
    -   *Update catalog record only if file was updated*
    -   *Keep local even if deleted at source*: If checked then metadata records that have already been harvested will be kept even if they have been deleted from the *Directory* specified.
    -   *Validate records before import*: Defines the criteria to reject metadata that is invalid according to XML structure (XSD) and validation rules (schematron).
        -   Accept all metadata without validation.
        -   Accept metadata that are XSD valid.
        -   Accept metadata that are XSD and schematron valid.
    -   *XSL transformation to apply*: (Optional)  The referenced XSL transform will be applied to each metadata record before it is added to GeoNetwork.
    -   *Batch edits*: (Optional) Allows to update harvested records, using XPATH syntax. It can be used to add, replace or delete element.
    -   *Category*: (Optional) A GeoNetwork category to assign to each metadata record.

-   **Privileges** - Assign privileges to harvested metadata.
