docs/manual/docs/install-guide/installing-index.md, before:

# Installing search platform

The GeoNetwork search engine is built on top of Elasticsearch. The platform is used to index records and also to analyze WFS data (See [Analyze and visualize data](../user-guide/analyzing/data.md) ).

GeoNetwork requires an [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch) instance to be installed next to the catalog.

## Elasticsearch compatibility

| Elasticsearch Version | Compatibility |
|-----------------------| ------------- |
| Elasticsearch 7.15.x  | minimum       |
| Elasticsearch 8.11.3  | tested        |


## Installation

=== "Manual installation"
        
    1. **Download:** Elasticsearch 8.x (`8.11.3` tested, minimum `7.15.x`) from <https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch> and unzip the file.

        ``` shell
        wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-8.11.3.tar.gz
        tar xvfz elasticsearch-8.11.3.tar.gz
        ```

    2. **Start**: Manually start Elasticsearch using:

        ``` shell
        elasticsearch-8.11.3/bin/elasticsearch
        ```

    3. **Stop**: Manually stop Elasticsearch using:

        ``` shell
        elasticsearch-8.11.3/bin/elasticsearch stop
        ```
        
=== "Install using Maven"

    1. Developers are encouraged to run Elasticseach using maven in order to test against the version of Elasticsearch intended for the next release.
    
        !!! note
            
            When running from source code the Elasticsearch version is obtained from [pom.xml](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/blob/main/pom.xml) property `es.version`.
    
    2. **Download**: Run maven from the **`es`** directory.

          ``` shell
          cd es
          mvn install -Pes-download
          ```
    
    3. **Start**: Use maven ``exec`` plugin to run Elasticsearch:
    
        ``` shell
        mvn exec:exec -Des-start
        ```
        
        Elasticsearch will run in foreground mode sending output to the shell.

    4. **Stop**: To stop Elasticsearch use ++ctrl+c++ to stop the maven process.

## Index creation

1. GeoNetwork will connect to Elasticsearch on startup, and indices will be created if they do not exist.
   
    * GeoNetwork will start even if Elasticsearch index is down (or not yet running).
    
    * When GeoNetwork cannot contact Elasticsearch a warning will be displayed.
    
    * When Elasticsearch index is available, indices are created if they do not exist.

2. Optional: To manually create indices use the **Admin Console** to create the default index.
   
    The application will create indices automatically once the Elasticsearch is up and running and if no indices are found.

## Customizing index

1. User may want to customize the index settings for example to change language configuration (see [es/README.md](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/tree/main/es#readme)).

2. Check the configuration file in **`$GN_DATA_DIRECTORY/config/index`**.

3. To manually remove and recreate the index, use the following:
    
    ``` shell
    cd $GN_DATA_DIRECTORY/config/index
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/features
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/records
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/searchlogs
    
    curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/features -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @features.json
    curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/records -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @records.json
    curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/searchlogs -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @searchlogs.json
    ```

## Check Elasticsearch installation

1. Access Elasticsearch admin page from <http://localhost:9200/>.

    !!! note
    
        It is not needed nor recommended to open port `9200` to the outside. GeoNetwork is protecting the Elasticsearch instance exposing only the search API and taking care of user privileges.

## Configure GeoNetwork connection to Elasticsearch

1. Update Elasticsearch connection details in ```WEB-INF/config.properties```:
    
    ``` properties
    es.protocol=http
    es.port=9200
    es.host=localhost
    es.url=${es.protocol}://${es.host}:${es.port}
    es.username=
    es.password=
    ```

2.  Restart the application:

Commit message:

Update docs for ElasticSearch - especially troubleshooting

docs/manual/docs/install-guide/installing-index.md, after:

# Installing search platform

The GeoNetwork search engine is built on top of Elasticsearch. The platform is used to index records and also to analyze WFS data (See [Analyze and visualize data](../user-guide/analyzing/data.md) ).

GeoNetwork requires an [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch) instance to be installed next to the catalog.

## Elasticsearch compatibility

| Elasticsearch Version | Compatibility |
|-----------------------| ------------- |
| Elasticsearch 7.15.x  | minimum       |
| Elasticsearch 8.11.3  | tested        |


## Installation

=== "Manual installation"
        
    1. **Download:** Elasticsearch 8.x (`8.11.3` tested, minimum `7.15.x`) from <https://www.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch> and unzip the file.

        ``` shell
        wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-8.11.3.tar.gz
        tar xvfz elasticsearch-8.11.3.tar.gz
        ```

    2. **Start**: Manually start Elasticsearch using:

        ``` shell
        elasticsearch-8.11.3/bin/elasticsearch
        ```

    3. **Stop**: Manually stop Elasticsearch using:

        ``` shell
        elasticsearch-8.11.3/bin/elasticsearch stop
        ```
        
=== "Install using Maven"

    1. Developers are encouraged to run Elasticseach using maven in order to test against the version of Elasticsearch intended for the next release.
    
        !!! note
            
            When running from source code the Elasticsearch version is obtained from [pom.xml](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/blob/main/pom.xml) property `es.version`.
    
    2. **Download**: Run maven from the **`es`** directory.

          ``` shell
          cd es
          mvn install -Pes-download
          ```

    3. **Modify**: Elasticsearch 8+ has security enabled by default.

         To disable this configuration for development, update the file `elasticsearch-<version>/config/elasticsearch.yml` and MODIFY these EXISTING entries to `false`:

         ```
         xpack.security.enabled: false
         xpack.security.enrollment.enabled: false
         ```
    
    4. **Start**: Use maven ``exec`` plugin to run Elasticsearch:
    
        ``` shell
        mvn exec:exec -Des-start
        ```
        
        Elasticsearch will run in foreground mode sending output to the shell.

    4. **Stop**: To stop Elasticsearch use ++ctrl+c++ to stop the maven process.

## Index creation

1. GeoNetwork will connect to Elasticsearch on startup, and indices will be created if they do not exist.
   
    * GeoNetwork will start even if Elasticsearch index is down (or not yet running).
    
    * When GeoNetwork cannot contact Elasticsearch a warning will be displayed.
    
    * When Elasticsearch index is available, indices are created if they do not exist.

2. Optional: To manually create indices use the **Admin Console** to create the default index.
   
    The application will create indices automatically once the Elasticsearch is up and running and if no indices are found.

## Customizing index

1. User may want to customize the index settings for example to change language configuration (see [es/README.md](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/tree/main/es#readme)).

2. Check the configuration file in **`$GN_DATA_DIRECTORY/config/index`**.

3. To manually remove and recreate the index, use the following:
    
    ``` shell
    cd $GN_DATA_DIRECTORY/config/index
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/features
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/records
    curl -X DELETE http://localhost:9200/searchlogs
    
    curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/features -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @features.json
    curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/records -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @records.json
    curl -X PUT http://localhost:9200/searchlogs -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @searchlogs.json
    ```

## Check Elasticsearch installation

1. Access Elasticsearch admin page from <http://localhost:9200/>.

    !!! note
    
        It is not needed nor recommended to open port `9200` to the outside. GeoNetwork is protecting the Elasticsearch instance exposing only the search API and taking care of user privileges.

## Configure GeoNetwork connection to Elasticsearch

1. Update Elasticsearch connection details in ```WEB-INF/config.properties```:
    
    ``` properties
    es.protocol=http
    es.port=9200
    es.host=localhost
    es.url=${es.protocol}://${es.host}:${es.port}
    es.username=
    es.password=
    ```

2.  Restart the application:
