docs/manual/docs/install-guide/logging.md, before:

# Logging

This section describes how to use the geonetwork log files to find more details on incidents.

## Customising the log file location

Log files are written to the generic log location of the container. It is possible to change the location of the logfiles with an environment parameter ``-Dlog_dir=/var/tomcat/``. The path should end with **`/`** and the log files will be created in **`/var/tomcat/logs/geonetwork.log`**.

Details of some errors, such as xsl transformation errors, are not written to geonetwork.log. They are written to a file called **`catalina.out`**.

## Setting the Loglevel

GeoNetwork by default has 4 log levels: PROD, INDEX, SEARCH, DEV.

-   PROD is the default option, it will only log critical errors.
-   INDEX is similar to PROD, but with extended logging around the indexation process.
-   Search is similar to PROD, but with extended logging around the search process.
-   DEV is the most extended level, all debug messages will be logged.

You can set the log level from the Admin --> Settings page.

![](img/log-setting.png)

## Log4j

GeoNetwork uses [log4j](https://logging.apache.org/log4j) for logging. The log4j configuration file is located at **`/WEB-INF/classes/log4j.xml`**. The configuration file configures for each debug level at what severity messages will be logged.

Commit message:

Fix the logs directory (#8808)
* Fix the logs directory

Documentation and other log4j2-*.xml files in the projects set the
log directory as ${sys:log_dir:-log_dir}/logs/. This commit does
the same to the default log configuration.

* Update log directory configuration and improve logging documentation

Use the plain log_dir system property value to define where the logs are stored.
Remove the appended /logs that was used before.
Still write the logs in logs/ directory if no `log_dir` is provided.

docs/manual/docs/install-guide/logging.md, after:

# Logging

This section describes how to use the geonetwork log files to find more details on incidents.

## Customising the log file location

The default log file location is `logs/geonetwork.log` (with backups created 
``geonetwork-1.log``, ``geonetwork-2.log``,...).

It is possible to change the directory where these log files are generated
with a Java system property  `log_dir`. The Java System property `log_dir`
is the name of a directory, and **does not end** with a `/`.

For the example `-Dlog_dir=/var/tomcat/logs` the files will be created in
`/var/tomcat/logs/geonetwork.log`, and will rotate through the filenames
`/var/tomcat/logs/geonetwork-1.log`,`/var/tomcat/logs/geonetwork-2.log`,...

To set the `log_dir` property, you can add it to the `JAVA_OPTS` in the startup 
script of your servlet container. For example, if you are using Tomcat, you 
can add it to the `setenv.sh` or `setenv.bat` file in the `bin` directory of 
your Tomcat installation.

Details of some errors, such as XSL transformation errors, are not written to 
`geonetwork.log`. They are written to a file called **`catalina.out`** (if 
using Tomcat).

## Setting the Loglevel

GeoNetwork by default has 4 log levels: PROD, INDEX, SEARCH, DEV.

-   PROD is the default option, it will only log critical errors.
-   INDEX is similar to PROD, but with extended logging around the indexation process.
-   Search is similar to PROD, but with extended logging around the search process.
-   DEV is the most extended level, all debug messages will be logged.

You can set the log level from the Admin --> Settings page.

![](img/log-setting.png)

## Log4j

GeoNetwork uses [Apache log4j](https://logging.apache.org/log4j) for logging. 
The log4j configuration files are located in the **`/WEB-INF/classes`** directory of the GeoNetwork web application:
**`/WEB-INF/classes/log4j2.xml`**, **`/WEB-INF/classes/log4j2-dev.xml`** and **`/WEB-INF/classes/log4j2-index.xml`**.
The configuration file configures for each debug level at what severity messages will be logged.

The file used is determined by the log level set in the *Admin* → *Settings* page.
