docs/manual/docs/install-guide/plugins.md, before:

# Plugins

Several plugins are available to expand the functionalities of a GeoNetwork instance.

Plugins are distributed in the form of single JAR files downloaded separately from the main GeoNetwork distribution. These files are available as ZIP archives alongside the main `geonetwork.war` file:

[https://sourceforge.net/projects/geonetwork/files/GeoNetwork_opensource/v4.4.6/](https://sourceforge.net/projects/geonetwork/files/GeoNetwork_opensource/v4.4.6/)

!!! info "How to install a plugin?"
  
     1. Download the ZIP file of the plugin
     2. Unzip the archive in the `WEB-INF/lib` folder of your GeoNetwork installation
     3. Restart the GeoNetwork server

    See below for more information and instructions specific to each plugin.

## Data storages: `gn-datastorage-*`

Support for these data storage interfaces is available through the following plugins:

* S3: `gn-datastorage-s3`  
  [See the detailed documentation here](./customizing-data-directory.md#using-a-s3-object-storage)
* CMIS: `gn-datastorage-cmis`
* Jcloud: `gn-datastorage-jcloud`

## Datahub integration: `gn-datahub-integration`

The [Datahub](https://geonetwork.github.io/geonetwork-ui/main/docs/apps/datahub.html) is a modern facade to GeoNetwork provided by [the GeoNetwork-UI project](https://github.com/geonetwork/geonetwork-ui).

![datahub.png](img/datahub.png)

**Using the `gn-datahub-integration` plugin allows easily deploying multiple Datahub frontends for each portal and subportal set up in the GeoNetwork instance** ([see documentation for portals here](../administrator-guide/configuring-the-catalog/portal-configuration.md)).

Two additional settings will be available in the portal configuration module:

* Datahub enabled (checkbox)
* Datahub configuration (text field in TOML format)

If no configuration is given for a portal or subportal, the default configuration will be used.

!!! note

    A complete documentation on how configure the Datahub application is available [here](https://geonetwork.github.io/geonetwork-ui/main/docs/guide/configure.html).

Commit message:

datahub plugin configuration and style (#8695)
* init toml configuration with TOML syntax coloration + init config

* datahub activated if plugin present - init

* correction of wrong id

* Read default config from resources instead of depending on SQL migration

* better doc

* better Sources admin UI for Datahub

* doc improvement

* rewrite base path in datahub

* Add datahub plugin in build process

---------

Co-authored-by: Olivia <olivia.guyot@camptocamp.com>

docs/manual/docs/install-guide/plugins.md, after:

# Plugins

Several plugins are available to expand the functionalities of a GeoNetwork instance.

Plugins are distributed in the form of single JAR files downloaded separately from the main GeoNetwork distribution. These files are available as ZIP archives alongside the main `geonetwork.war` file:

[https://sourceforge.net/projects/geonetwork/files/GeoNetwork_opensource/v4.4.6/](https://sourceforge.net/projects/geonetwork/files/GeoNetwork_opensource/v4.4.6/)

!!! info "How to install a plugin?"
  
     1. Download the ZIP file of the plugin
     2. Unzip the archive in the `WEB-INF/lib` folder of your GeoNetwork installation
     3. Restart the GeoNetwork server

    See below for more information and instructions specific to each plugin.

## Data storages: `gn-datastorage-*`

Support for these data storage interfaces is available through the following plugins:

* S3: `gn-datastorage-s3`  
  [See the detailed documentation here](./customizing-data-directory.md#using-a-s3-object-storage)
* CMIS: `gn-datastorage-cmis`
* Jcloud: `gn-datastorage-jcloud`

## Datahub integration: `gn-datahub-integration`

The [Datahub application](https://geonetwork.github.io/geonetwork-ui/main/docs/apps/datahub.html) is a modern facade to GeoNetwork provided by [the GeoNetwork-UI project](https://github.com/geonetwork/geonetwork-ui).

![datahub.png](img/datahub.png)

*Using the `gn-datahub-integration` plugin allows easily deploying multiple Datahub frontends for each portal and subportal set up in your GeoNetwork installation* ([see documentation for portals here](../administrator-guide/configuring-the-catalog/portal-configuration.md)).

### Enabling the plugin

Simply unzip the [gn-plugin-datahub-integration](https://sourceforge.net/projects/geonetwork/files/GeoNetwork_opensource/v4.4.6/gn-plugin-datahub-integration-4.4.6-0.zip) archive and copy its content in the `WEB-INF/lib` folder of your GeoNetwork installation.

### Configuration

Please refer to the [Portal configuration page](../administrator-guide/configuring-the-catalog/portal-configuration.md#configuring-a-datahub-interface-for-a-sub-portal) to set up a Datahub interface once the plugin is enabled on your GeoNetwork installation,

### Building the plugin

Use the `-Pdatahub-integration` profile when building GeoNetwork: the plugin will be packaged as a JAR file in `plugins/gn-datahub-integration/target/`.
